[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Ladies and gentlemen, put
your hands together and give
a wonderful warm
welcome to Gregg Braden.
[APPLAUSE]
>> It's been way too long --
>> It really has been.
Thank you.
>> Yeah.
Wow.
Thank you all so much.
Thank you, Shima.
We used to do that years
ago, and then we stopped.
And thank you for
starting again.
She said I'm her first
for this conference.
So are you as happy
to be in this room
right now as I am to be
in this room right now?
I don't know.
Wow.
I want to say welcome to
Conscious Life Expo 2020.
Can you wrap your
brain around 2020?
Remember when you were
kids and 2020 seemed
like a lifetime in the future?
Remember that?
Here's what I remember.
I remember-- do y'all remember
2012, how weird that was?
I remember 2012, and people
asking me, and a lot of them
were some of the
radio interviewers
that were less than friendly.
The radio interviews,
they would say,
when is this change
everybody's talking about,
when's it going to begin?
Yeah, well, those
interviewers now
are asking me, when's
it going to stop?
I'm telling them-- I say,
man, we have just started.
We're just beginning.
Can you feel this world?
Can you feel this
world's on fire?
Can you feel that?
Let me-- I just want to
ask you, how many of you
feel like there's a really
beautiful world emerging?
Yeah.
I feel that as well.
If you did not watch
the opinions of people
who were paid to give you
opinions on mainstream media,
you would not think
that the world
is in such a bad place or any
nation is in such a bad place.
It's really, really
interesting for me.
I was-- I had a thought coming
down the elevator today.
I believe this world is
going to be here a long time,
but if for some reason the
world ended like today,
wouldn't this
conference, wouldn't this
be an awesome group of people
to start a new world with?
I mean, wouldn't it?
I mean, think about
all of the knowledge
and the wisdom and the insights
from so many different walks
of life, from
agriculture and child
bearing and family and
science and technology
and spirituality.
Actually, here's what happened.
I was just in the back
room of the hotel.
And the hotel manager came down
and gave me a little secret.
He said, this isn't
really a hotel.
It's a pod.
It's a ship
disguised as a hotel.
So if something
happens, we have the way
to preserve humankind's
knowledge for the--
I'm just kidding.
OK?
So I want to say hello to you.
And we are streaming
live to planet Earth.
So I'm going to say hello
to all the people watching
on our streaming.
Please welcome all of
our people streaming.
We've got a global
family out there.
Yeah.
And right down the
hall behind a secret
closed door deep in the bowels
of the hidden bunker, there--
I don't know where
that came from.
That's on the airwaves.
There is a control
room run by Gaia.
And Gaia is working very,
very diligently to record,
to share this information,
to stream it live.
And they've worked
behind the scenes
to put this whole
thing together.
So if you haven't
already, please help me
give them a warm welcome
and deep gratitude.
Gaia, we love you.
Thank you so much for
everything that you're doing.
You guys are awesome.
Yeah.
And while I'm talking to a
Gaia, I'm just going to ask you,
don't zoom in too
close on my face.
OK?
It just doesn't work
doesn't work out.
If you've ever been on camera,
you know exactly what I mean,
right?
So I have been given
the opportunity--
I've got 90 minutes.
It's going to be a fast
90 minutes tonight.
I want to talk to you
about this world that's
emerging and a battle.
A battle, it is
an ultimate battle
that is playing out that
is rarely talked about.
And this is one of those
really beautiful places where
science and spirituality
and politics and policy
all come together, because it's
based on the way you and I have
been taught to think about
ourselves, about our world,
about our relationship
to the world, and beyond.
If you think about it,
this is really interesting.
Everything that we do, all
the choices that we make,
everything that we
embrace in our lives
or reject in our lives,
it's all based on the way
we've been taught to think.
So this is what I want to
talk to you about tonight.
There is an American author.
His name is Scott Turow.
And he says this so beautifully.
I'm not even going
to try to do anything
but share what he says.
He says, who are we but the
stories we tell ourselves
about ourselves?
But it's not enough to
tell yourself the story.
Who are we but the stories we
tell ourselves about ourselves
and believe?
What do you really
believe about who you are?
Not what you
consciously believe,
not what the new age and the new
thought books and the workshops
and the Gregg Braden tapes and
videos tell you to believe,
but what do you really,
really believe about yourself?
And the answer to that is
the life that you've created.
Your life is reflecting to
you, it's mirroring to you
the deepest truths
of your existence.
When we learn to
read those truths,
it reveals tremendous
insights into us
and what we believe, our
relationship to our world.
So I want to talk to you
about our story, our story.
And I'm going to define this.
The story is the way
we've been taught
to think about ourselves.
From even before we were
born, your program begins.
And I think many
of you know that.
If you've ever been with
my dear friend, colleague,
spiritual brother Dr.
Bruce Lipton-- how many
you've been with Bruce?
Oh, what a beautiful
man, a good, good man.
And his course is
on prenatal training
and how the fetus actually
begins to pick up cues
from the mother and the father,
or whoever the adults are even
in the womb--
chemically, vibrationally,
acoustically, energetically.
So our story, now,
our story, I want
you to know this is more than
a philosophical conversation.
You say the word
story to someone.
You think, oh, yeah, you
know, what's a story?
It's more than just a
philosophic conversation.
We live our lives.
I'm going to get personal.
You live your life
based upon your story.
This is what I'm saying.
You solve your problems
based upon what you've been
taught to think about yourself.
You choose your relationships.
Now, think about that.
We're all having
relationships of some kind--
every marriage, every divorce,
every marriage, every
divorce, every divorce.
There's a whole
workshop we could
do right there on thinking.
Note to myself, future workshop.
We choose our relationships,
our friendships
based upon the way
we've been taught
to think about ourselves.
The kind of jobs that
we feel qualified even
to consider applying for.
We're all adults in here.
I mean, think about this.
The people you invite into
your lives, the people
you invite into your bed,
it's based upon the way
that you think about yourself.
The way you heal
your body is based
upon the way you've been
taught to think about yourself.
You go to have a
physical and the doctor
says something is going on
that shouldn't be going on,
you can have all the new
thought, all the new age tools,
and your deck of
cards that you look
at first thing in the
morning, and the mushroom
drink fermenting in the
back of the refrigerator
that you drink
just before you put
on the tourmaline that takes
you through the rest of the day.
And all that can be good.
That can all be good.
But if the doctor tells
you something is not right,
where do you go emotionally?
And where do you
go psychologically?
And the answer to
that question--
there is no right or
wrong, but it tells you,
it informs you about your story.
How you heal your body.
And the world that we're
creating right now our society,
the political choices,
the laws that we're
voting into
governance, the people
that we have asked
to represent us,
it's all based on the way
we think about ourselves.
So are you starting to get
the sense that our story is
really important?
It's more than a
philosophical concept.
Can you get that?
Yes, no, audience participation.
All right.
Good.
Well, I have spent the bulk
of my adult life searching
some of the most
isolated and remote,
mysterious, pristine places
remaining in the world
today to see where our
story has come from,
our collective story.
What do our ancestors know about
us that maybe we've forgotten
or maybe that we're only
beginning to understand?
And my journey has
taken me into some
of the most amazing
places, some of the most
magnificent monasteries,
like this one in the Tibetan
Plateau, remaining
in the world today.
But it's also taken me into some
of the most humble monasteries
that you're not going to
see on Hollywood screens.
But these are the places where
those who have come before us
have stored the information
that tell them about our story--
who we are, where
we've come from,
perhaps most importantly, what
our capabilities, what our
capacities, and what our
potentials really are.
And it was in
monasteries like this.
I mean, this is a very humble
mud and brick monastery
in the Egyptian desert.
It's on Mount Sinai.
Maybe some of you
have been here.
No electricity is in here.
They all use oil.
I'm trying to think of what--
I think it's olive oil
lamps that they use.
No running water.
And you would never
guess in a million years
based on how primitive it
looks on the outside when
you walk inside--
I'm just going to show you
the first time I walked inside
of this monastery,
I was expecting
to see a dusty old room
and not even close.
This is what I saw
when I walked in there.
And that's what I said.
It's been there 1,500 years.
I said, how did they do that?
And then I realized, they
had 1,500 years to shop.
They had 1,500 years to
roam the world and decorate.
It is a Coptic monastery.
But because of-- And I want
to show you the ceiling.
Look at this.
Artisans from all
over the world came.
And when you see, what I want
you know, this isn't painted.
These are tiny parts,
pieces of minerals and glass
that are made into this mosaic
that is just unbelievable.
And I'm sharing this
with you, because if they
had this kind of technology,
it's not surprising
that they have a library.
And I want to show this library.
This is such an awesome library.
Look at it.
It looks like a Harry
Potter library, doesn't it?
And I was only allowed
in this library twice.
But it was in--
I mean, look at the spiral
staircases in there.
Beautiful.
And it's in this
library where there
are records of a wisdom that
predates the knowledge that we
have today.
It's written not in scrolls,
but in ancient texts
in many different languages
that are only now, only now
they're being translated.
And this is just one library.
And this happens
to be an in Egypt.
There are others like here.
From the late 1990s to the-- the
mid 1990s to the early 2000s,
I was privileged to lead
groups into the Tibetan
Plateau, a 26-day journey.
We cannot make them any
longer for political reasons,
but I'm glad that we did,
because while we were there,
we found places like this.
The more remote and isolated
they are, the more intact
the wisdom is.
And I think you can
see why that would be.
The monasteries that
are easy to get to,
those are the ones that
have been ransacked.
And many of them don't
exist any longer.
But it was in this
particular monastery
we had the opportunity
to see this library.
And I'm really gratified
at your response,
because that's what I said.
We walked into a dark room.
And the monk said,
wait right here.
And when he turned on the
light, this is what I saw.
This is-- I don't
know if you can see.
My hand is at the bottom of the
slide holding the flashlight up
right there.
And you're looking at the
corner of this library.
It's three stories tall,
but it's only 12 feet wide--
very narrow, very tall.
And these are Tibetan books.
There they're loose pages
sandwiched between the covers,
these wooden covers.
And when you open them,
this is what you see inside.
Each page is telling
something about us,
our story, our
relationship to the past,
our relationship to our body,
our relationship to ourselves
and one another.
And what I find
fascinating about this
is the knowledge that's
contained in these records
predates the paper that
they're written on.
You find this
knowledge in stone,
in cuneiform, ancient cuneiform.
You find it in Sanskrit.
You find it in the
ancient languages
that are called the root or the
core languages of humankind,
such as Arabic, such as Hebrew.
And those languages became--
and that knowledge became the
core of the great religions
that came later.
The knowledge came first.
The spiritual
principles came first.
The Hebrew language, the
Tibetan Buddhist traditions,
the traditional Buddhist
traditions, the Hindu
traditions, the oldest
records of the Old Testament,
the oldest records
of the New Testament,
as different as they
are from one another,
and they are very
different now, but they
stem from this common body
of knowledge about us.
Who are we?
Where do we come from?
But perhaps most
importantly, how do we
function in this world?
What are our capabilities?
What are our potentials?
And this is where our
story takes a big shift.
This is why I want to share
this with you tonight.
I have had the opportunity
to be with the people who
live what's in those
traditions, who
live what's in the monasteries
and those books, and the monks
and nuns.
This is an abbot in Tibet.
The opportunity to be with
the shamans in the Yucatan.
I'm just going to say,
this beautiful man--
I was just in the
Yucatan three weeks ago.
Maybe some of you in this
room were there with me.
And this is a
shaman I work with.
He just passed.
So many of the good
ones are leaving.
Have you noticed that?
I say, god, it must
be the end the world.
All the good ones are
leaving, but then it's
the beginning of a new
world, and all the good ones
are coming back.
So it all works out OK.
But I've had the opportunity
to study with these people.
They aren't scientists.
These aren't scientists.
But they understand these
fundamental principles
that we're going to
talk about tonight.
And the beautiful women
that are anchoring
this powerful feminine energy.
This is in the southern Andes.
I've known this
woman over 20 years,
and she hasn't
aged over 20 years.
And in her mid-50's, she
just had her third child.
And they do this.
They do this.
And they're healthy.
And in these communities,
you don't have breast cancer.
You don't have prostate cancer.
So it's not about aging.
It's about our story.
It's about how we
live our lives as we
attain the chronological age.
I talk about that in
some of the books.
I'm a scientist, so
I've had the opportunity
to see the scientific
story as well.
I'm a degreed earth scientist.
I'm a geologist, a strong
background in life science,
math, computer
science, and physics.
And it all works
together to help
me stay current with the
new discoveries that are not
being shared in the mainstream.
I've got to tell you.
Science is on a tear right now.
The new discoveries--
we've asked science,
science, tell us who we are.
And science is telling us--
and a lot of scientists
don't like what the
science is telling them.
It's not being shared in
the mainstream classrooms,
mainstream textbooks.
I'm going to share some of it
with you right here tonight.
But what I want to say is the
science, rock solid science,
this peer-reviewed science,
not Gregg's hypothesis,
or Gregg's theory,
or Gregg's opinion,
but rock solid science is
telling us, number one,
we are not what we've been told.
Number two, number two,
we're more probably
than we've ever even allowed
ourselves to imagine.
You are such an awesome,
powerful, majestic,
sophisticated, internally
advanced technology.
You are a soft technology.
And that soft technology,
you're the only form of life
that can self-regulate
your soft technology.
That's why I'm here
to talk about tonight.
It's what I want to talk
to you about tonight.
I know I'm speaking
fast, because I've
got a lot to that I
want to get to before we
get to an experiential place.
Now, I want to do more
than just talk to you.
At the last minute, I
changed this program.
I want you to have
some direct experience
right here in the room with me.
Some rock solid tools.
Yeah.
Well, here's the thing.
Typically, when
they say keynote,
a keynote is like
you're going to say
some cool stuff that opens
the door to something else.
And I'm happy to do
that, but I don't
know if I'm going to see
you all again or not.
And if I never see you again,
when I go to sleep at night,
I want to know in my heart that
you, my brothers and sisters,
you and I worked together to
learn something about ourselves
today that makes
our lives better,
and that helps us
to become better
for our families
and our communities.
And that's why I'm talking fast.
So I'm going to be personal.
You are not what
you've been told.
You're absolutely more than
you probably ever imagined.
So if you change your story,
what would you imagine changes?
Change your story, change what?
Absolutely.
Change your life.
Change your story,
change your life.
But what happens if we
change our collective story?
What would you imagine happens?
Oh, man, you guys are right on.
Change our story,
you change the world.
We are at a point
right now where
the lies and the things that we
believed in the past that are
not sustainable are collapsing.
The question is,
what replaces them?
What goes into the
vacuum that's being left?
And the answer to that
is what we are deciding
in this generation right now.
And I want you know,
all the discoveries,
the big discoveries,
we've already solved all
the big problems in the world.
I talk about in longer programs.
We've got all the solutions for
food and energy and medicine,
longevity, and healing.
And that's how I
know, that's how
I know that if
the powers that be
were really serious about
things like climate change,
they would bring those
technologies to bear
upon the world.
It's not happening.
And it's not happening
for a lot of reasons,
but that's changing.
It's changing in places.
I want to thank Conscious
Life Expo for the opportunity
to bring this kind
of information
to a broad general audience
in a really accessible way.
You see all kinds--
have you noticed
you see all kinds of people
at the Conscious Life Expo?
Have you noticed that?
Because this is a mecca.
It is a mecca where people
come out of curiosity.
They come and they say,
I want to check this out.
I want to see what
this is all about.
I saw this guy on TV or
I listened this woman.
I heard her on the radio.
I want to check it out.
And it's an
opportunity to converge
in one place for a few
short days and do just that.
And that's why I'm so
excited about sharing this.
What I want to talk to
you about is the battle.
There is a battle.
It's playing out right
before our very eyes.
You've often heard it said.
The best way to hide
something is what?
Keep it in plain sight.
There's a battle playing out
right in front of our eyes.
There's a battle for your story.
There's a battle for
your story, for the way
that you think about yourself.
There's a battle
for your thoughts.
Have you noticed that?
There's a battle
for your thoughts.
It's playing out in
mainstream media.
It's playing out all across
the mainstream media.
I have yet to see
anything exempt.
It's playing out
in the classrooms.
There are actually books that
are being banned in the United
States classrooms
right now because they
tell a story that does not
fit the mainstream narrative.
But it is a powerful story
of hope and possibility.
I'm going to share part of
the story with you right now.
But it goes even beyond that.
There's a battle for where
you think you came from, what
you think your origins are.
The new DNA science is
overturning 150 years of what
you and I have been taught.
I'm going to get to
that very, very quickly
tonight right here,
because it's not the story.
I grew up-- I went to
school in the late 1950s,
'60s, early '70s.
As a scientist, I
have to tell you,
as a scientist, what
I'm going to share
with you goes 180
degrees against what
I was taught as a scientist.
However, it's what
the evidence supports.
The evidence no longer
supports the old story.
There is a battle for
the way you think,
not only how you began,
but how the universe began.
There is a battle for
what you're thinking
about climate change right now.
You're being told all kinds of
stories about climate change.
There's a battle of what you're
thinking about chem trails.
There's a battle for 5G and
what you think about 5G.
Is it a good or bad
or right or wrong?
There's a battle
playing out for that.
There's a battle for what's
playing out in the skies.
And you're being taught how to
think about what's playing out
in the skies over your
home and over our cities,
and who's behind what's
playing out in the skies.
And how long we've
known about it.
These are 5,000-year-old rock
records telling us we are part
of a global--
or a cosmic community
that has been
around much, much
longer than what
we're being led to believe.
There's a battle for your body.
Did you know there's a
battle for your body?
Have you seen that?
There's a battle telling
you what you need
and what you don't need.
There's a battle
telling you what
to put into your children's
body before they even
leave the hospital,
the moment they're
born, the moment they're born,
and up until the first six
months.
There's a battle for that.
There's a battle about
what it is that you need
to ease the pain in your life.
And it's causing
a lot of problems.
What you need to be healthy.
These are all parts of the
battle that are playing out.
But there's a bigger battle.
There's a bigger battle.
So don't get caught
in the diversions
of those other battles.
This is the big battle.
It is a battle for
your very humanness.
What I want to say
to you is you and I
are such a rare and
precious form of life.
And there's something
so unique about us
that has been honored through
the ages from this world
and from other worlds.
And it's being threatened
right now by technology.
That is the battle.
Technology is changing
the human story.
And I'm not going to say it's
right, wrong, good, or bad.
I'm going to say we
need to be aware of what
it is that's happening so
that we can make wise choices.
Does that make sense
if I say it that way?
All right.
I'm going to give
you an example.
We now have the technology
within just the last four
years.
We have the technology that we
can customize a human embryo
while it's still in the womb.
Now, this is a
dangerous thing to do,
because natural evolutionary
processes eliminate
the things that
don't work for us,
and they enhance the
things that do in the DNA.
And when you start designer
DNA, designer babies,
when you start
customizing those,
you are preventing those
unwanted characteristics
from existing.
Let me just give an example.
I think most people in
this room know what this.
It's a word processor.
You've all seen word processors?
I was just with an audience
in another country.
And they don't have as
many computers as we do.
And they didn't know what
a word processor was.
And that's why I put
this up to show them.
So what happens in
word processors?
You can take a
word, or a phrase,
or an entire sentence
or paragraph,
and you can cut it from
one place in the document
and paste it into
somewhere else.
You all have done that, right?
You know where
we're going, right?
That concept-- are you
good with that concept?
OK.
That concept is exactly what's
happening now with the DNA.
This is an actual screen
from a DNA editor.
Instead of a word
processor, you're
looking at a strand of DNA.
You can actually take
that DNA, and you
can select very specific genes.
And you can cut and paste those
or eliminate them altogether,
just like you would
a word processor.
And you can do it while
the living embryo is still
in the womb of the mother.
You can do that.
I have a beautiful, very rare
clip I want to share with you.
Are you OK with
talking about this?
Are you good with this?
So this is the first
documented piece of a film
where this has
actually happened.
It's a technology called CRISPR.
I know some of you
are very familiar
with CRISPR technology,
CRISPR gene editing.
So here it is right here.
This is the first
real-time CRISPR image.
Play it a couple times.
This is the DNA right here.
I want you to look.
When the little white
circle comes up,
look at what's
inside the circle.
And then you'll
see it disappear.
Where is it?
Where did it go?
There it is right there.
OK.
Now watch what happens.
Beginning, OK, it's there.
It's there.
See it right there?
And now, there it is, it's gone.
They just took a piece of
genetic information out
of a living strand of DNA
inside of a living embryo
is what's happening right here.
Now, in theory, that could
be pretty cool, in theory.
But what happened was the
theory got out of the bag.
And it surprised
a lot of people.
This man right here
November of 2018
announced in the
scientific journals
that he had done something that
was only thought theoretically
possible, that he
had actually edited
the DNA of an unborn child,
and the child now has been born
and is the first living
birth of DNA-edited children.
Here it is right here.
There's the first
baby right there.
And I'll tell you what.
The scientific community
came down on him
like a ton of bricks.
And they said, wait a minute.
Just because we can doesn't
mean that we should.
And he said, well,
wait a minute.
We would never
learn how to do this
unless we were meant to do it.
This is the crux of
a scientific argument
that I've heard throughout
my career as a scientist.
There's some scientists
that say if we were never
meant to do these
things, we would never
learn how to do them.
Other scientists say,
just because we can
doesn't mean that we should.
But this is now
possible right now.
So we are now on a path
of literally customizing
the DNA inside of living--
and now more have happen.
It's not just this one.
It is now happening.
But you're not hear--
how many have heard
about this on mainstream?
Anybody hear about
in mainstream media?
Well, this is a very
informed audience.
Very informed.
We're engineering the way that
we connect with one another.
This photograph
could have been taken
on any main street of any
city anywhere in the world.
How many of you have seen this?
People walking together, and
everyone's in their own world.
What the studies have shown
is that we have the technology
to be more connected than we
have ever been in the past,
and we are more lonely
than we've ever been.
Think about that.
The technology
connects us, but we're
more alone than we've
ever been in our lives.
And this is a lot of what's
happening-- the way that we
learn to connect.
Now, how many of
you have seen this?
You laugh when you see it.
But a couple goes out.
They're busy.
They've got two careers.
They've got kids.
They get away.
Mom keeps the kids.
And they go out and have a
beautiful nice romantic dinner.
Before dinner is even
over, what are they doing?
They're checking messages.
Now, if both of
them are doing it,
maybe it's not so
much of a problem.
But more often than
not, you see that.
Do you see what's happening?
He's checking his messages.
She's not too happy about it.
And I see this happening
in restaurants.
And now it's not just in
English-speaking restaurants
or just in America.
I see it all over the world.
I see this happening.
Kids, kids, how many
of you have kids
that are dealing with
social technology right now
and learning about what
that means in their lives?
It's changed the way young
people actually communicate.
We're blurring the connection
between human and non-human.
Robots used to look like that.
It used to be pretty easy to
see what a robot looked like.
Guess what.
That's a robot.
And if they look
that good, they're
going to do more than
housecleaning, right?
Do you agree?
They are.
It's a whole new industry.
There's a whole new industry
that's emerging from this.
But I want to show you how
it threatens our humanness.
Because there's a whole
new industry emerging
from this where these
devices are replacing genuine
intimate human contact.
And there are societies
where people are opting
for this because it's easier.
It's cleaner.
You don't get caught up in
the emotional stickiness
and the mess of
tough relationships.
There are societies
now where it is
legal to marry your AI partner.
Now, can you just
take a wild guess.
Which one is the AI and
which one just got married?
Look at the look
on that guy's face.
I love this.
He has just married his
AI, his dream AI partner.
But here's where now it
goes one step-- you're not
being told this on mainstream.
So look at this.
Not only are people-- and
this isn't like a one-off.
I mean, this is an emerging
trend in some societies.
And as a result of this,
they are choosing AI babies.
They're choosing artificial
intelligent children,
because they're
easier to care for.
They don't have the
emotional problems.
Now, let me tell you
why this is a danger.
How many have never
heard about this?
See?
That's why I'm
telling you about it.
It's why I'm telling you this.
We're not being-- we've got
all these other diversions
going on.
Here's why this is a problem.
It's because when we stop
using the unique capabilities
of humanness, they
begin to atrophy--
those abilities.
And the countries where those
relationships and the AI babies
are being opted for, their
birth rate is declining.
And it's a mystery why
the women are sterile,
why the men are sterile,
and the birth rate now
has dropped below
the mortality rate.
So they're losing people
faster than they can
populate their own countries.
And this is all the result of
where technology is leading,
but we're not hearing
much about this.
Our natural abilities,
you are such
a powerfully sensitive being.
You've got this
internal soft technology
that gives you the
ability to sense realms
that no machine can
sense, right now any way,
to sense subtle realms of
energy, subtle realms of life,
to create life.
And we begin to give
away those technologies.
They atrophy.
And you say, well, maybe
one generation, no big deal.
It's a choice.
You either take it or leave it.
Look at what happened
to cell phones.
One generation, you could
either have a cell phone or not.
Next generation,
what's happening?
Everybody's got one.
When it becomes a way of life.
So here is where this gets
really, really dangerous.
You all know who this man is--
Elon Musk.
And I have a lot of
respect for Elon Musk.
He's brilliant.
He's young.
He has a Vision he has the
money to explore his vision.
And he's pushing the boundaries.
He's going to push
those boundaries
until something pushes back.
And he just announced
last year, '19,
the development company
is called Neuralink.
He is developing--
he's actually--
they're already developed.
They're now being manufactured.
The first chips, there's
the chip right there.
The computer chip
that is designed-- now
think about this.
This is a silicon chip.
And you see those
little ports on there?
Those little ports interface
with the little dendrites,
the tentacles if you will,
of the human neurons.
It is the first direct
neuron chip interface.
It's implanted into
the human brain.
And the idea is
that with this chip
we now have direct
access to your hard drive
without any cables.
Direct access to your
computer's hard drive.
Now, I was just in a
roomful of young people.
And I want to tell you
what they said, sweet.
Sweet.
It's like, man, I can game
all day long with my brain.
Remember why the technology
can be a slippery slope.
Because when we give our
power away to technology,
we begin to atrophy.
The very capacities that set
us apart from all other life.
There are neurons in the
neocortex of your brain
that already do
with that chip does
if you know how to access that.
They're called mirror neurons.
And if you've been with
me in long programs,
or Joe Dispenza
in long programs,
or Bruce Lipton in
longer programs,
we talk all about
those mirror neurons.
I want to tell you,
a mirror neuron
doesn't know the difference
between experiencing
and witnessing what it
is that's happening.
It will fire as if you
are having an experience,
even when you're watching
someone or something else.
Musicians know this.
It helps you to learn.
I'm a musician when
I'm not doing this.
It's my plan B. If this whole
author gig doesn't work out,
I'm going to go back on
the road as a musician.
But it helps us to learn
very, very quickly.
If you begin with those implants
and you're no longer accessing
those parts of your brain, in
one generation, it's a choice.
The next generation
you begin to lose it.
Pretty soon, humankind has
lost the precious abilities
that give us our uniqueness.
Now, I want to say something.
And I can say it in
this room, because you
are a very aware audience.
I cannot say what I'm about to
say to you in other audiences.
So what I'm going to
say to you is this.
I have a lot of friends.
I have a group of
friends who focus
on the abduction phenomenon,
UFO abduction phenomenon.
It is a global phenomenon.
It's been happening for decades.
I know you've heard
speakers talk about this.
One of my friends
did a study and said,
what is the common
theme that runs
through all of the abductees?
Why are these people
having these experiences?
And there are all
kinds of unique things
that are happening, but the
dominant theme, the one theme
that flowed through
everything ties directly
into what you and I are
doing here right now.
Do we have time?
Do you want to talk
about what that theme is?
The theme is this.
It's that the beings
doing the abducting
say that they come from a
lineage of life that gave
their power away to technology.
They were at the
point where we are now
where they had to choose.
They chose the
technological route.
They lost the uniqueness
of their biological,
their soft, soft technology,
and they want it back.
And that is one of
the reasons that they
are so interested in where
you and I are right now.
But nobody tells
you how powerful
and beautiful and
special you are.
Does that makes
sense if I say that?
Can you feel that?
I just got goosebumps
just from saying that.
So this is what's happening.
We already have these.
There they are right there,
these mirror neurons.
You use them perhaps
without even knowing it.
You can develop the
way you use them.
Does anybody know who this is?
I know this is an
aware audience.
Absolutely.
This is Sofia.
She's the first robot
AI granted citizenship.
She is a citizen of a country.
It happened in '17
in Saudi Arabia.
She took the citizenship quiz.
She answered every question.
And she now is the first of
a growing number of citizens.
She is an intelligent--
I saw her interviewed
on Jimmy Fallon.
She's very smart, very smart.
So the question is this, where
do we end and the machines
begin?
How far do we take this trend?
Now, I want to tell you a story.
I live-- my wife and I live in a
rural community in northern New
Mexico, north of
Taos, New Mexico
if you all know
where we're Taos is.
And there's a
little market where
I do-- it's a co-op,
Manzanita co-op, if you
know where that is, where
we do our grocery shopping.
And I was in line not long
ago behind another man.
And he had a lot of produce,
a lot of groceries there.
And I was just kind of
looking around, checking out
what was going on.
It came time for
him to check out.
And I saw something I
had never seen before.
He walked up to the scanner,
pulled up his sleeve,
scanned his wrist, and he
walked out with about $230
worth of groceries.
And I looked at the cashier.
Now, I came up.
I looked at the cashier,
and I said, what was that?
And the cashier--
it was a woman.
She goes, yeah, that
was weird, wasn't it?
It was like, we see weird
stuff in here all the time,
but that was pretty weird.
She told me.
She says, he has a chip
embedded under his skin that
links his body to his bank
account and his credit cards.
And he just paid
for those groceries
by scanning his wrist.
Now, I'm not saying it's
right, wrong, good, or bad.
But I'm saying this is
where the trends are going.
Where do we end and
the technology begin?
Microsoft and MIT have worked
together to create this.
It's called DuoSkin,
where they are
using the resistivity
of the body
to create electrical current to
run other gadgets on the body.
So the body is creating
the current that
runs the gadgets in the body.
This is pretty wild stuff.
Pretty wild stuff.
And it's happening right now.
And what I want to say--
I just want to be
very clear about it--
I'm not against this.
I'm simply inviting us to be
aware that this is a trend.
It is a powerful trend.
It is not in one
country or one society.
It's sweeping the Earth.
It's called transhumanism.
There is a belief that
people can live longer,
that they can save
their memories,
that they can upload
their awareness,
that they can extend their
lifespans through the devices
and the machines.
And I want to tell you
your body is so powerful.
Your body is so sophisticated
and has the ability--
you already have the
ability to do everything
in your biology
that is done here.
I'm just going to
tell you a story.
I wasn't, but I'm going to
in the interest of time.
And it's pulling
on me, so I'm just
going to go ahead and
share it with you.
I mentioned I live
in New Mexico.
I sometimes take
groups into an area
at Chaco Canyon, New Mexico,
an archeological site.
Some of you have been there.
When I did the reconnaissance
trip in the early '90s,
I met a native
man who was there.
OK.
I'm just going to tell
you the whole story.
Here's the whole story,
because it all ties in.
So some of you know a little
bit about-- you know I come--
I'm the product of a very
dysfunctional, abusive
alcoholic family.
My father was the abuser.
I'm the survivor of
childhood trauma.
He left our family
when I was 10.
And my mom and I, and I
have a younger brother,
we had to figure out how to
live in the 1950s and '60s.
Pretty tough times
for all of us.
I was close to my mom.
And when I got my
first divorce, my mom
had never healed
from her divorce.
And she was angry and didn't
talk to me for two years.
And it was at that two-year
mark where we had a phone call,
and she wanted to see me.
She says, I miss you.
And I said, well, I
miss you, too, mom.
And so I said, I'm doing a
recon trip into Chaco Canyon.
Come to New Mexico
and go with me.
And she said, yes.
So mom and I were
hiking Chaco Canyon.
And here's the reason
this is important.
A Native American man
crossed us on the path.
We were going one way.
He was going the other way.
And he said the
only reason that he
stopped and talked to me was
because I was with my elder.
I was with my mother.
And he saw that.
He says in our tribe, that is
a sign of deep respect, when
the man honors his mother
by sharing a journey
in the sacred land with her.
He says, who are you?
And so we had this conversation.
And it was during
the conversation
that he shared a story.
And the story is about what
we're doing right here.
He said, a long time ago,
the people of the Earth,
he said they lived
very differently
than they live today.
They were close to the Earth.
They remembered who they are.
And he said something happened.
And even the old people,
the elders, they don't know.
Something happened.
And the people of
the Earth got lost.
They began to
forget who they are.
They've began to
And he said, they were lonely.
They longed for the connections
that they used to have.
And they began to build
outside of their bodies
the things that mirror
what they already used
to do inside of their bodies.
And he said, this is
where we are right now.
We're building machines.
We're building devices
outside of our body that
mimic what we already have.
And he said, we will
continue to do that.
And we will clutter our lives
and clutter the world until we
wake up and remember that
that technology is us,
and then we let it all go.
And we become very
sophisticated technologically
in a much simpler world.
Isn't that a beautiful story?
Yeah.
Very, very powerful.
And I can thank my mom,
for if she wasn't with me,
he probably wouldn't
have told me that.
Thank you.
So I cannot help when I
see these technologies,
is this us reminding ourselves
of who we are at the point
in history when we're at this
very crossroad where everything
that is not true is collapsing
and we are asking ourselves who
are we and what path
do we choose now?
Isn't it beautiful?
A beautiful symmetry
that it's only now.
This may not have made
sense 50 years ago.
Maybe that's why we didn't have
the technology 50 years ago.
So the question, we
have to make a choice.
Are we going to become
a world society that
gives our uniqueness away
to machines and technology?
And I'm not saying it's
right, wrong, good, or bad.
What I'm saying is this.
Please let's at
least discover who
we are before we give it away.
Let's find out who we are.
Let's find out how
deep this goes.
Let's find out
what amazing power.
OK.
Think about this.
There is a philosophy that says
consciousness informs itself
through its creations.
You with me on this?
Yes, no?
Consciousness informs
itself through its creation.
So what that means
is everything,
all the music that we write,
and the books that we write,
the movies that come
out of Hollywood,
more than just diversions.
Maybe they are all telling
us something about ourselves
that we are asking
ourselves to remember.
And if you think from
that perspective,
look at the themes that are
blockbuster, blockbuster
themes.
Superheroes that have
these amazing abilities
that we identify with
and that we want.
Or the ideas of "The
Matrix," of a world
that we can't see
that influences
the world that we can see.
Or "Inception," the
world of dreams,
and dreams within dreams that
influence what's happening.
Or "Avatar," our relationship
to the Earth and to natural
forces.
All of those, what
are they telling us?
I think we're at a critical,
critical powerful crossroad
right now.
And my hope today
is to simply remind
you and me that we are there.
And I'm going to
give us something
to do with that reminder.
Because here's the key.
I already said this.
You are the technology.
I am the technology.
We're the technology that's
sought after in other star
systems, because they want
what you and I still have.
But nobody tells you that.
And we are demeaned
and diminished
if you listen to external media.
But if you listen to
the wisdom of those
who have come before
us, they remind us
that there is something
so precious inside of you.
And I'm saying this
to you right now,
because if you haven't
felt it recently,
I want you to feel that
preciousness and how special,
how powerful, how beautiful,
and how rare you really are.
Does that makes sense
if I say that to you
in a 90-minute-- fast
90-minute program?
We're wired.
You are wired to regenerate
every cell in your body,
even the cells we
were told could not--
brain tissue, spinal cord
tissue, pancreatic tissue,
heart tissue, all
documented with, number one,
stopping a deterioration,
number two,
healing the damage,
and number three,
regenerating to new what
has already happened.
But you have to give it
the right environment.
And that environment
is not always external.
Some of the most
powerful environment
is what you create through
thoughts, feelings, emotions,
and beliefs.
That's where science and
spirituality come together.
That's what we're going to
do in here in just a moment.
You're all going to be
younger when you leave here
than you were when you came
in here, I promise you.
And you're going to have
stronger immune systems.
All right.
Because you're wired to heal.
You are wired-- this is the key.
This is the powerful word.
You are wired to self-regulate.
No other form of life,
no other form of life
can consciously sit
down in a moment in time
and say, in this
moment, I choose
to awaken my deep intuition.
I choose to enhance
my immune response.
I choose to awaken
my longevity enzymes.
I choose to access deep
states of intuition.
No other form of life can do
that consciously on demand.
That's why you're so powerful.
We are wired, literally,
literally wired
to self-regulate
at will on demand.
So are you good with
everything we just did?
Can you see the battle
that's unfolding?
All right.
New discoveries are now
overturning 150 years
of the way you and I
have been taught to think
of ourselves, our story.
There's a new story emerging.
And it's very, very different.
You and I were taught that
we're separate from one another,
separate from the world, and
that competition and conflict
is the fundamental
rule of nature.
The new discovery, the new
science of the 21st century,
I'll just tell you
right now, number one,
it's telling us that nature,
the fundamental rule of nature
is cooperation, not competition.
And if you even doubt that for
a second, look in your own body.
You are made-- the average
human, whatever average is--
about 50 trillion cells.
But think about this.
Every one of those cells has to
cooperate with every other cell
or you couldn't be sitting
in this chair breathing
and listening to me right now.
You model.
You live nature's deepest,
deepest truth of cooperation,
not competition.
Now, I'm not saying
competition doesn't happen.
We all know it does.
We're witnessing it,
especially among humans.
But what it tells us is the
more conflict and competition
you see, that
tells us how far we
have strayed from
our relationship
to the true laws of nature.
And if we want that harmony
and peace in our world,
we've got to be able
to honor those laws.
So these discoveries,
if you are taking notes,
I'm going to go
through these quickly,
but I numbered them
to make it easy
for you to take these notes.
I have to say this
first discovery,
even though it's
probably self-evident,
I want to talk about evolution.
And I want to be really clear.
I'm a geologist,
an Earth scientist.
I was taught that Darwin's
theory of evolution
is our origin.
I want to be very clear.
I believe in evolution.
It is a fact.
I've seen it in the fossil
record for many forms of life--
plants, animals, insects.
Evolution is a fact.
It's just not for us.
Evolution breaks down
as the story for how
we have come to be as we are.
The science, honest science, not
pop science, honest science--
are you OK?
Honest science no longer
supports this story,
but it's still being taught
as a fact in the classrooms.
And any science that
opposes those old ideas
is not being allowed in
mainstream classrooms.
Now, it's changing, but I
want to share this with you.
I have to show this to you.
To be complete, you've
all seen these before.
This is right out
of the Smithsonian.
I didn't make this up.
This is out of the Smithsonian.
What you're seeing in your
upper left-hand corner,
modern human represented by
that skull in the red circle.
And all of the other
fossil skulls you see,
science tells us
are forms of life
that led to us being as we are.
And they are connected
through these green--
let's see how well
can you see them.
These green lines, can you
all see those right there?
Actually, Gaia and
Conscious Life Expo,
thank you for having
such good projectors,
because you can actually
see that those lines are not
solid lines.
They're broken lines.
And the reason they're broken
is right there in the legend,
because they are inferred or
speculative relationships.
There is no physical
evidence that
has ever been found to
support those green lines.
That's why there are question
marks right there, right there.
This is a very honest chart.
There's no physical
evidence that's ever
been found to support that.
Scientists believe it's true.
They say after 150 years of the
best universities, the greatest
funding, the most
sophisticated technology,
we just haven't looked
in the right place
to find the evidence.
That's what they tell us.
All right?
So we now know this isn't true.
And we know it because
of discovery number two.
This sounds like
science fiction.
How many saw "Jurassic Park,"
the first one, the good one,
the really good one?
All right.
"Jurassic Park,"
they were pulling
DNA out of the fossilized
remains of dinosaurs.
Remember that?
That used to be science fiction.
Guess what.
It's not.
Right now, we're
able to pull DNA
from the fossilized remains of
previous and ancient lifeforms,
including those that are
supposed to be our ancestors.
We pull that DNA, and
we build the genome.
And you compare it to us.
Guess what.
They're not us.
We didn't come from them.
We are not related.
We didn't descend
from Neanderthal.
We shared the Earth
with Neanderthal.
We did not descend
from the Neanderthal.
Now, if you ever do ancestry.com
or 23andMe or something
like that, you say, well,
I've gotten Neanderthal DNA
in my genome.
Many people do for
that very reason,
because there was interbreeding.
They say they probably
had Neanderthal boyfriends
and girlfriends.
And I said that at
a program recently.
And there was a woman
in the front row.
And she said, I still do.
No.
But the guy next to her
was not laughing at all.
And before my very eyes
I saw this couple--
in a room of 3,000
people, I saw this couple
have a couple's workshop.
It was like right there.
So we may have
had-- we interbred.
They walked the Earth with us.
We did not descend from them.
The DNA is now telling us--
and this is the mindblower
for a lot of scientists.
The DNA is telling us that
what is now called Anatomically
Modern Humans, AMH, showed up on
earth about 200,000 years ago.
That is accepted.
If you Google that, no problem.
Scientists agree with that.
Anatomically modern
humans, fully modern humans
showed up 200,000 years ago.
Here's the thing.
They haven't changed
in 200,000 years.
Where are those anatomically
modern humans today?
Where are they?
Yeah, you're them.
You are they.
We are they.
We showed up mysteriously
200,000 years ago.
There is a breakdown in
the evolutionary theory.
There was evolution occurring
in life forms before us.
Now, I'm going to
show you exactly-- do
you want to see what happened?
Can I show you?
This is a very
sophisticated audience,
so I can show you the science.
Can we do the science?
Cool.
OK.
We showed up 200,000 years ago.
We have not changed.
I'm just going to say
right there that's
not Darwin's idea of evolution.
Darwin talked about typically
slow gradual changes
over a long period
of time, or what was
called punctuated evolution.
Some of you are
familiar with that.
Alfred Wallace was the co-author
of the theory of evolution,
and Wallace said
something very powerful.
He said, nature
never overendows.
You all are tremendously
overendowed.
Aren't you happy to know that?
Here's what I mean by that.
Typically, nature
will give a life form
a quality or a capability when
it needs it, and not before.
We showed up with these
extraordinarily sophisticated
capacities and capabilities
already intact light years
before we ever even had
the need to use them.
And they haven't
changed since then.
So here's anatomically
modern humans.
You look at their skeletons,
and here's what they look like.
Not much different
than what you see.
Modern humans today
look very, very similar.
I just wanted a
familiar example.
I'm sorry.
I told you I was a musician.
I'm either going
to shave it off,
or I'm going to
grow it all back.
I'm not sure.
Hey, I'm just happy it's
still there, honestly.
I'm just really happy.
They told me if I can
keep it to my 70's, I'm
probably home free.
So all right.
So here it is.
We showed up 200,000 years ago
with all of the capabilities,
all the capacities
we have today.
They haven't changed.
We don't know
where we came from.
But what we now can do is
reverse engineer the DNA.
We take the DNA
that we have that
gives us all these extraordinary
capabilities-- work backwards.
What happened to give
us these abilities?
And this is where the
mindblower comes in.
Discovery number
three, look at this.
Human chromosome number 2,
a mysterious chromosome,
human chromosome
number 2, it's about 8%
of every cell in your body,
it is responsible for most
of the neocortex that gives
you your uniqueness where
those mirror neurons are
and a lot of other very
special neurons.
I'm just going to say--
I can't do it here, but
I just want you know,
as recently as last year, 2019,
an entire new class of neurons
was discovered that
only exists in humans
and was in the neocortex.
So would you agree with me the
neocortex is pretty important?
Listen to this.
It gives us our ability
for emotion, for sympathy,
for empathy, for compassion,
for self-regulation.
If you didn't have a neocortex,
you couldn't do that.
It gives us the capacity,
our unique capacity
for our humanness.
So the question is we all just
said it's pretty important.
Where did it come from?
I'm going to answer that
question right here.
It looks very
technical, and I know
you don't want to
read this whole thing.
So I'm going to cut to the
last sentence of the last--
of the end of the
abstract that tells us.
This is from "Proceedings
National Academy of Sciences."
The volume is called "Genetics."
Where did this very, very
special chromosome come from?
Look at this.
Well, I've got to tell you this.
This is so funny.
Scientists, I work with
scientists all the time.
When a scientist
makes a discovery
that they are really
proud of and they're
going to announce it, and they
want the credit, they say,
look what I found.
Look what I found.
When they make a discovery
that's a little iffy,
or they might lose
their tenure, or they
might lose their
funding, they kind of
hide with some other scientists
and say, look what we found.
OK.
With that in mind, where does
chromosome number 2 come from?
"Proceedings for National
Academy of Sciences"
is trying to tell us, but they
don't want to get in trouble.
So look at this, "We conclude
that human chromosome 2
is a relic of an ancient
DNA fusion of two
ancestral chromosomes."
Now, there's a whole lot
in that sentence to unpack.
Now, what they're saying is
there was a fusion of DNA.
And here it is.
I wanted you to actually see it.
Look at that little
pinch point right there.
That is where the two
chromosomes are fused together.
Can you all see that?
Right there, you
can see where it is.
Now, if there are
biologists in the room,
you say, what's the big deal?
Chromosomes fuse all the time.
You're absolutely right.
Not this way.
And that's what I
want you to see.
All right.
So you all, the very
aware audience in here,
you all know about something
called telomeres, right?
Everybody knows
telomeres-- protective caps
on the end of the DNA.
Only on the end of the
DNA is where it's found.
Check this out.
Here is typically how
chromosomes will fuse together.
There is a break in the
chromosomes right there.
Part of this is
absorbed in the body.
And there's a
fusion right there.
That fusion, the fusion
happens right there.
There are telomeres at the
ends, and there are still
telomeres at the end.
OK?
It's fused at the break point.
Look at what happened
with you and me.
With you and me, there are two--
these are two
chromosomes right here.
The blue is the telomeres.
They fused together.
Remember, they're only
supposed to be on the ends.
They fused together.
And look.
Where are the telomeres now?
They're not on the ends.
Look at that.
They're right there
in the middle.
This is how we know
they fused together.
So what did I just say?
Here it is.
Typically the chromosomes
will fuse at the break.
Ours are fused at the end.
The telomeres are
typically at the ends.
Ours are right in the middle.
That is not the product
of natural processes
as we know them today.
You don't see that
anywhere else.
Or if that was too technical,
I made a little movie.
There it is right there.
Some of the DNA goes away.
Some of it is added and modified
to stabilize what happened.
And this is how you
and I have attained
this extraordinary capacity
that we have right now.
Scientists say that the timing,
the precision, and the result
suggest something
way beyond evolution.
They say evolution
cannot do this.
They now say we're in
forbidden territory.
I love that term, "forbidden
territory," because they
say for that to
happen, it appears
that there is an
intention underlying this.
And the intention
suggests a purpose.
It implies that
there is a purpose.
So what do we did we just say?
The odds, you say, maybe it's
rare, but could it happen?
Science tells us that
1 in 10 to the 400,
if those are the odds
of something happening,
it's considered
impossible, in general.
DNA, what happened?
Look at this.
What the scientists say is 1--
I want to show you
what that looks like.
If you want to see what 1 in
10-- if the odds are 1 in 10
to the 600th, it's
more than impossible.
1 in 10 to the
400th is impossible.
It's 1 in 10 to the 600th.
That's what they're telling us.
Or if that's too
technical, look at this.
Sir Fred Hoyle,
British astrophysicist.
I love this.
He says the odds
of the DNA forming
in the way they did are
the equivalent of a tornado
sweeping through a junkyard
and leaving behind a Boeing 747
from the scattered
debris, one of these.
Now, think what are the
odds a tornado is going
to sweep through a
junkyard and even leave
a wing, one wing, or a tail.
It's not going to happen.
You and I are not the
product of random mutations.
And the science
is telling us that
in very, very uncertain terms.
So the question is, who
or what is responsible?
There's a whole workshop
we could do with that.
But what I'll tell you is
it depends on who you ask.
Ancient traditions,
the ancient Sumerians,
they have their story.
The ancient Aboriginals,
look at the creation story.
They tell us their story.
The Navajo here in the US,
they tell us their story.
The Hindus, they have a
beautiful story of cycles,
great cycles of time.
The Egyptians have their
story about how we got here.
Christians have a great
story with pictures.
I like the Christian
pictures right there.
Awesome pictures.
New artifacts being
found in Mesoamerica
are telling us their story.
You can see what's
happening there.
Obviously some
celestial relationship.
If you watch TV, "Ancient
Aliens" tells us their story.
All right.
Scientists have
told us their story.
But even the scientists doubt.
Look at the big gap
between modern humans
and those that came before us.
They say something happened,
something's missing in there.
Science is telling
us their story.
Now it's a new
story based on DNA.
So the bottom line to all
those ancient stories,
I have to say, as a
scientist, and this
is as far as I'm going to go
with this in this program,
is we have to say there's been
some kind of intervention.
Some intervention has given
us these extraordinary
capabilities that
we have right now.
So are you OK with that?
Makes sense?
So the question now is how do
we awaken what we've been given?
How do we awaken our
extraordinary potential?
And that's what I want to
do, discovery number four.
1991, scientists found
40,000 specialized cells
in the human heart that
had always been there
and had never been recognized.
They're called sensory neurites.
They're like brain cells,
except they're not in the brain.
They're in the heart .
They think, they
feel, they learn,
and they remember independently
of the brain in your head.
And that means every
experience you've ever had,
all of your hurt, and all of
your joy, all of your trauma,
and all of your ecstasy,
you've had in two places.
Probably not a problem unless
you're trying to heal a trauma.
And if you're only healing
it through the memories
in the mind, it may feel that
your healing is incomplete.
And this gives you a
clue as to why that is.
Discovery number five.
We were all told the brain is
the master organ in the body.
Well, it's not quite accurate,
because the brain and the heart
actually work
together in harmony.
Two separate organs working
in one powerful system.
Two organs, one system,
heart/brain harmony.
And you are the
only form of life
that can initiate this
harmony on demand.
The optimum frequency between
the heart and the brain if you
want that harmony is 0.1 hertz.
If you can create a
feeling in your heart
that sends point 0.1
hertz to your brain,
you're harmonizing the heart
and the brain together.
Now, as a geologist-- did I
mention I was a geologist?
Did I tell you guys that?
I never get to say
it anymore, so I'm
going to really enjoy it.
As a geologist, I'm going to
say hi to this side of the room.
Hi.
As a geologist, as a geologist,
this is fashioning point.
0.1 hertz, look at this.
These are the magnetic field
frequencies, field line
resonances of the Earth.
And I don't want
to get technical,
but I want you to see this.
The first spike right here,
guess what the frequency
is of that first spike.
But I have to give you a clue.
It's not 0, and it's not 0.2.
It's right in between.
0.1 hertz.
That 0.1 hertz,
when you harmonize
the heart and the
brain with 0.1 hertz,
not only are you harmonizing
the systems within your body.
You're tuning your body to
the fundamental frequency,
the magnetic resonance,
not the human resonance,
the magnetic field resonance
of the planet you live on.
That makes you a
very powerful being.
That's where your
healing begins.
You get that?
It's not like you're
this little entity
like floating around here
doing your own thing.
It's like now you are part of
this massive planet that we
live on.
And that is fueling you
to an even deeper healing.
So I want to show you
this really quick.
This is our planet.
Isn't that a beautiful little
planet we live on right there?
And these are magnetic
lines around the planet.
And this is the Sun coming from
the left, solar energy pushing,
deforming the magnetic
fields that protect us.
You all can see that, right?
Now, this is an
actual NASA image.
Each-- OK.
Are you still with me?
I know it's warm in here,
but are you guys good?
OK.
So listen, as a musician, I love
what I'm about to say to you,
because we're all musicians.
Music makes the world go round.
OK.
Every one of those
magnetic lines--
or each magnetic field
creates one of those lines,
let me say it that way.
When the sun's energy
pushes against those fields,
it is like the sun is plucking
the strings of an instrument.
The sun plucks the string
of that magnetic field.
Now, here I'll put
it into motion.
Here's what it looks
like when it happens.
But I want you to hear it.
Do you want to hear it?
Just say yes.
OK.
So I'm only going
to play this briefly
in the interest of time.
All right.
Here it is.
So I'm going to--
let's see.
I'm going to bring this down.
It's a very intense sound.
And I want you to
listen to the sounds
within the sounds is
what I want you to hear.
OK.
Here it goes.
Isn't that intense?
So if you're ever out in the
solar system and get lost
and you want to come
home, follow that sound.
So when you harmonize
the heart and the brain,
this is what you're
harmonizing to.
Now you know what the magnetic
field of the Earth looks like.
This is the first
computer generated image.
And y'all have seen these before
on the internet somewhere.
But they are-- it's not
an artist's conception.
This is actually what
the magnetic field
around the human
heart looks like.
It extends three to five
feet around the body.
It looks like what's
called a tube torus.
It's a very universal
geometric pattern that you see.
And when you look at that
and you look at this,
you see a similarity.
Yeah, well, this
is it right here.
When you harmonize the
heart and the brain,
you are actually
bringing your body
into alignment with this field.
Now, that's a powerful visual.
That's why I wanted
you to see that.
Now, one last thing
I want you to see.
This 0.1 hertz is what does it.
0.1 hertz, this is where
the healing begins,
the regeneration.
Super longevity can
come-- there's so
many things that can
happen from harmonizing
the heart and the brain.
So it's not just a
one-time exercise.
Once you access
that harmony, you
have the ability to
access super longevity,
awakening the longevity
enzymes that already
live in your body, super
immune response, direct access
to this deep wisdom,
heart intelligence.
It's a trigger for over
1,300 biochemical reactions.
I used to go through
every one of those,
and I found my audience
didn't like it.
So I don't I don't go through
all 1,300 chemical reactions
anymore.
I would group them
into groups of 10,
and it was still too much.
But look at this.
Resilience, super
intuition, direct access,
the hotline to
your subconscious,
super learning, super
memory, super cognition.
All of this, and much--
oh, I have to say this.
Mirror neurons,
much, much more, all
begin with harmonizing
the heart and the brain.
Now, if you are not into
any of those, simply
harmonizing the
heart and the brain
will strengthen
your immune system
and it will awaken
your longevity enzymes.
Heart-brain harmony,
it's just the beginning.
Discovery number six.
You all know what
these are, right?
These are neurons inside
a living human brain.
This is a person
having thoughts.
But look at this.
They are random thoughts,
random firings, the neurons,
what would happen if you
could harmonize all of those
and bring them together so
they all fire at the same time?
What if you could
harness that energy
for your own
healing or to access
your own deep intuition to
harmonize you with the Earth?
Well, let me show you
first what it looks like.
This is a different brain.
I want to show you the
front of this brain.
Over 90% of the
front of this brain
is going to fire simultaneously.
This is what it looks like when
you harmonize those neurons.
Not there or there or there.
Right there.
Boom.
Look at that.
We do this.
And we can do it on
demand consciously.
It is such an advanced
soft technology.
And it's where we begin
to rewrite our story.
The world is changing.
We're not going to
stop the change.
All we can do is determine
how we respond to that change.
The old human story says we're
powerless victims in the world,
and we need someone to save us.
The new human story says that we
are masters of our own biology.
And as we shift the way
that we think, our story,
it shifts the way that
we live our lives,
the way we solve our problems,
the kind of relationships
that we attract, how
we heal our bodies,
and what kind of
a world we build.
And that is the power of the new
human story, self-regulation.
And you've been very, very kind.
And we went quickly.
Thank you all so much.
Thank you for the opportunity
to be in here today.
I love you all.
[MUSIC PLAYING]